Hi, I'm Pastor Torrin Brooks and welcome to Faith Christian Church.
So glad you decided to join us today.
For the next 30 minutes, we're going to be looking through God's Word and finding ways for it to apply to our lives today.
Hope you enjoy this morning's sermon.
Word, I've been reading Philippians and I'm just enjoying what I'm reading.
Today is going to be a little bit phonetically challenging to me.
So I'm going to ask you forgiveness now and I'm going to rename one of the Bible characters for this morning's sermon.
You'll see what I mean in just a minute.
Philippians chapter two, verse 19, but I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you shortly that I also may be encouraged when I know your state for I have no one like minded who will sincerely care for your state for all seek their own, not the things which are of Christ Jesus, but you know his proven character.
that as a son with his father he served with me in the gospel.
Therefore I hope to send him at once as soon as I see how it goes with me.
But I trust in the Lord that I myself shall also come shortly.
Yet I have considered it necessary to send to you.
You ready?
See, I pause because it's just one of those names.
You wonder what was his mother thinking?
You ever know anybody like that?
I remember one time reading through and seeing a, seeing a name and we named our child Moonbeam.
Okay.
I don't, I don't get it, but okay.
But Epiphroticus?
Epaphroditus.
Why?
Was he that painful?
What was the problem?
You know?
I'm going to call him Ed.
There's a godly name.
I'm going to call him Ed this morning.
Now, please understand, I'm not being sacrilegious here.
But I got to preach this morning.
If I have to keep repeating that long name, we're going to be here an hour.
But I'm going to send to you Ed, my brother, fellow worker and fellow soldier, but you're a messenger and the one who ministered to my need.
Since it was longing for you all and was distressed because you had heard that he was sick.
For indeed, he was sick almost into death.
But God had mercy on him.
And not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Therefore I send him the more eagerly that you may see him again, when you see him again, you may rejoice.
And I may be less sorrowful.
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness and hold such men in esteem because for the work of Christ, he came close to death, not regarding his life, but to supply what was lacking
in your service towards me.
Wow.
What a story.
When I was, I have to admit that I'm a, I was going to say rabid.
It's, rabid is not, it's close to the right term.
Some would say an avid football fan.
Last night when I was watching the games, I have a rather large TV and instead of sitting in my recliner where it's safe and comfortable,
My wife will tell you that during the first of the two games last night, while it was in second overtime, I was standing four feet from the TV, screaming as though I was telepathic and could get messages to the coaches through my TV to the field where they were playing.
I was probably on the verge of having a massive heart attack.
I was feeling pains in my shoulder and my thigh, but yet I was encouraged to root
for whoever would win because the game itself was so much fun to watch.
I didn't really carry one.
It was the game was on and I was excited about the players.
Never ceases to amaze me that no matter how star quality a player may be, if it's not for the supporting cast of the team, the team will never win.
It used to amaze me when I would watch baseball and here, this player got a five-year
125 million dollar contract only to watch that player's team end up third in their division and never make the playoffs.
When you're looking throughout history, you'll find that there are superstars in the Bible.
There are.
There are people who cannot be passed over when you're studying the Word of God.
People like Noah.
How could you forget Noah?
I mean, the man built a boat.
Granted, it took him 100 years to build a boat, but he built a boat.
A boat big enough to put two of every kind of animal in the ark.
And then he was brave enough to put himself in the ark with the animals and his wife and his children and their wives.
And they had them float around for nearly, I think it's like half a year as they're floating around on this thing, waiting for dry land to appear.
not knowing if dry land would ever appear.
You've got people like Noah, a Moses, what do we think about Moses?
We're studying Moses right now in our Exodus Bible study.
This guy has got to be just, he's got to be tough-skinned.
I mean everywhere he goes people love him or they hate him.
And when they love him they really love him and when they hate him they really hate him.
I mean one minute they're like
Hurray Moses has led us across the sea.
The next minute they're like, you call this water.
You really call this, do you not know what this is?
This is not water.
This is bitter water.
You know, Moses does all kinds of incredible things, but he's not alone.
You know, even if we're really thinking about it, Jesus being the superstar, superstars of the Bible still had a team of men around
that helped him.
Somebody to count the offerings that came in to distribute stuff to the poor.
People who, well, they were half decent protectors.
At least he got the guy's ear.
He wasn't any good as a fisherman, but you know, he had people around him, people who he was teaching, who he was ministering to.
And when you come to the church in the book of Acts, there are superstars there too.
People like Paul.
And Paul is when he's writing the letter to the church of Philippi, he is not probably at his best.
After all, do you remember what happened to him in Philippi?
He like went from hero to zero to beaten into jail only to around midnight.
You got to be a bad singer.
I thought about this for a long time.
You gotta be a bad singer for God to say, enough, shut him up, send an earthquake.
Come on.
I mean, angels singing in like the heavens open up, Paul sings in the earth shakes.
You never thought about that, did you?
Other people are singing and dancing and God's glorified and all that.
Paul sings and God's like, stop him, send the earthquake and let him out.
Love you.
Just don't sing anymore.
In fact, you find in the Bible, Paul doesn't sing anymore after that either.
So, you know, you can't go into every synagogue and destroy.
Anyway, the idea is Paul is not his best, but he has got a rising young star who is, I mean, this is the guy everybody talks about.
If he was the evangelist, this is the evangelist everybody wants at their church.
His name is Timothy.
And I want you to know this, this kid has got it together.
He was born into this thing with, with, with a shining coat.
You know, we used to laugh.
I shouldn't, I shouldn't pick on people like this, but when we used to watch Christian TV and we'd see those, those guys come in with their bright white coats on.
Wow.
I want a suit like that.
And then my dad reminded me how much it cost to clean a suit like that.
And I, you know, but they were, they're all shiny.
And man, they're ready to go.
And Timothy was one of these guys.
Everybody wants Timothy to come to their church.
Cause where Timothy comes, things are happening, man.
They're moving.
The anointing of God is on Tim and he is preaching the truth.
And he's young and he's got energy and he's vibrant.
And he's like, you know, like I was 20 years ago, man.
I had energy.
Now I'm just, you know, remotes.
It's remote.
I want it, but Timothy is cooking, man.
He is moving with passion and everybody likes him.
And can you imagine the people in Philippi hearing?
Oh, Timothy's coming.
Wow.
Cause Timothy's traveling.
Paul refers to Timothy.
Listen to this.
Paul refers to Timothy as like a son.
And we all know how big Paul is, man.
Paul is huge.
because not too many people in the Bible got their name changed.
Everybody got their name changed and the Bible was a mover.
Come on, think about it.
Abraham, Sarah, Jacob, these people were movers.
Paul was a mover.
He went from Saul to Paul and he's going 90 to nothing, but he's slowing down.
The Paul bandwagon,
kind of stopped the little sudden by being thrown in jail everywhere he goes.
And the Paul bandwagon kind of slowed down a little bit when they crushed his feet by beating him with rods.
And after his first shipwreck, people didn't like traveling with Paul because you just never know.
After the second shipwreck, I'm surprised that anybody ever went anywhere with him again other than on land.
And then when he's on land, he's getting bitten by snakes.
I mean, what do you do with this guy?
Timothy is, but Timothy is moving and people seem to like Timothy.
You don't hear about Timothy getting thrown in jail.
Do you hear about Timothy?
I mean, Timothy is serving and where he's going, things are moving and everybody likes this idea.
Timothy and the people in Philippi are just, wow, Timothy's coming.
We're excited.
But Timothy is not the only person in the church.
And Timothy is not the only person that can do stuff.
Timothy is not.
Listen, just because Timothy's name may be on the marquee doesn't mean that Timothy makes the world go round.
I got news for you.
Not everybody can be a star.
And even the star sometimes fall pretty hard.
I can tell you the number of times I've watched as people who have set themselves up for great success have let it all go to their mind.
And the next thing you know, they're falling so hard, they'll be lucky if they survive the night.
Stars are not all it's cut out to be because when you're put in front of the limelight, the level of expectancy rises with every single story told about you.
Every single issue that's brought up creates more and more of a pedestal in the higher you go, the farther it is, if you fall.
Now, I don't believe for one minute that Timothy bought into all the hype about himself.
When you read Paul's letters to Timothy, I see a guy who's humble.
He's just trying with everything he can to do everything he can for the gospel Jesus Christ.
There is nothing wrong with that kind of person.
And when there are people out there and they've got the attention of the media and they're using it for the glory of God, praise Jesus.
I wish somebody would.
You keep seeing preachers thrown into the limelight and as soon as they get in the limelight they step out.
There was a gentleman, I don't know the whole story about it, I just saw a glimpse of it on CNN the other day, there was a gentleman who was asked to
to pray the benediction at the inaugural address and something he said years ago made him feel like he couldn't do it anymore.
I'm like, man, if the president of the United States asked me to pray, I'm not going to let my path.
If you get an opportunity to pray over America for crying out loud, somebody get anointed.
It doesn't matter who's up there.
It could be whoever.
Big president.
The thing is, God said, I'm preparing you to stand before leaders and rulers.
And when you do, I'm going to give you the words to say.
They're not going to associate you with him.
When God uses you, they'll associate you with God.
And who knows?
That prayer may have saved the lives of hundreds of people who are watching.
Conviction could have come down.
We don't know now.
They're going to pick somebody else.
Somebody else will do it.
I put my name in.
I ain't scared.
It's a big bulletproof wall there.
But there's, you know, you don't, the idea is, listen, it's okay to be a star, but Paul says there's not, not everyone is a star, but there is a guy who I'm also sending you.
He's not a star.
But he's incredible.
He said, listen, this is how he describes our friend Ed.
He says, listen, he's my brother.
Not a son.
Not a disciple.
He's a brother.
You know, you know, that really, what that really entails, you remember Jesus saying a friend, you know, the whole idea of a friend sticks closer to the brother, this, you know, this kind of this bonding of,
but this idea of my brother, he's not just somebody I know, he's somebody I have a relation with.
He's a fellow worker.
I like that.
That means he's not afraid to get his hands dirty.
He's not afraid to get down there and do some work.
He's not afraid to get his suit wrinkled.
I used to know a guy who would
He would wear normal looking clothes to church, but he has suit in the closet at church.
He'd only put it on five minutes before he'd go on stage because he didn't want it to be wrinkled.
And I got to thinking, you know, I hate to tell you this, but the moment you touch it, perfection just out the window doesn't really work that way.
Ed is not afraid to get his hands dirty.
He's a fellow soldier.
You don't want a fellow soldier means, don't you?
That means when the fighting gets tough, he stands side by side with Paul.
He says, but he's your messenger.
Apparently what had happened was the church in Philippi knew that Paul was sick or Paul needed attending to or Paul needed some kind of help.
And they just, I bet they drew straws.
This sounds like a draw straw kind of opportunity.
After all, Ed's not the kind of person that you send when somebody flashy needs to go.
You've seen Tim for that kind of thing.
Ed's the kind of guy you need to send when things are going to get tough.
Because see, Ed's been in this game long enough to know that he can trust in the Lord, even if it means his life.
He knows that no matter what the circumstance comes his way, he can trust the Lord that God is in control of everything.
So if we're going to get beat,
We're going to get beat together.
See, the church doesn't remember that.
And you know, I was talking just this past summer with a man who marched the streets down in Birmingham, Alabama with Dr. Keenan.
He said, we knew when we were marching down that street, we were going to get beat.
He said, but we knew we were going to get beat together.
Something about soldiering together, standing firm together.
knowing that yes, you may not come through this thing, but if we die, we're dying together, we're dying for the right reasons.
We're fighting for the right cause.
Because the cause of Jesus Christ is always the right one.
problem is is that men come in and skew the word of God to make their own benefit and send people off on wild goose chases and that's where we get farms way out in the country with gates on them and locks on them and nobody knows what's going on and they don't let access to anybody because somebody has taken something way out of context but there are people today who are just like Ed who say I'm going to soldier on for the kingdom of God and when I see injustice I'm gonna stand up to it when I see
Sin, I'm going to call it out for what it is.
And when I see people that need Jesus, I'm going to preach hope where it seems like there's no hope.
That's the kind of guy Ed is.
He said he ministered to him.
The Greek says he ministered to Paul.
The same phrase is the same phrase that the Bible says the Philippian jailer ministered to Paul's wounds.
Now, the Bible doesn't say that
The Ed is the Philippian jailer, but there's a connotation there.
It just makes me wonder.
This is the guy.
Bible says.
The Ed went to serve Paul and it almost cost him his life.
Almost cost him his life.
But he didn't worry about that.
See, Ed's not a complainer.
He's not, he's not worrying for himself.
He's always focused on the gospel.
Paul says, I'm going to send him to you because I'm telling you what, I almost had sorrow upon sorrow.
You know, I'm sure Paul would be upset if he lost Timothy, but when you, when you're a brother in the Lord with someone and you're a fellow worker and you're a fellow soldier in, and you're ministering to one another, when you feel that loss, that loss hurts and it's deep.
Paul says, at least I'm glad I'm going to be able to send him back to you.
And then Paul says something very interesting.
He says, I'm sending him back to you so that you may rejoice.
I'm going to rejoice because I know he's not in danger.
He's not in trouble anymore.
But this one says, he says in verse 29, receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness and hold such men in the steam.
Well,
That's funny because we don't accept for ministering to Paul's particular needs.
He didn't do anything.
It's not like Ed built a church.
It's not like Ed's preaching to thousands.
It's not like Ed is a superstar.
He doesn't have the nightly tent crusades.
He's not casting out demons.
Why are we holding these men in esteem because it takes these kind of people?
to keep the church going.
When the church forgets that it takes those people who are not afraid to get in there and work, not afraid to get in there and fellowship, not afraid to get in there and stand soldier to soldier side by side, then the church will always fail.
It takes people like Ed to know that, listen, sometimes there are more important things than ourselves.
I'm not afraid.
This guy was not afraid to go into places where it was dangerous.
Sometimes when it comes to church ministry, we will do whatever is safe for us because safe is what we have grown accustomed to.
But do you know in the New Testament church, there was really nowhere safe for the church.
It was a time of severe persecution and I got news for your friends.
That time's coming again.
Don't you think for one minute that in America right now there aren't people conspiring to make it difficult for you to come to church next week?
For us to even have a place to come together.
All pastors, you're talking all that conspiracy stuff and people have been saying that for years and we've never seen it.
It's a feeling I have.
There's a reason I feel the Holy Spirit is
is leading us in the direction we're going to start new ministries, to pay off the church debt, to do things because it's going to help in the future.
I can't tell you all the things I've seen because I haven't vetted all the things I've seen against the Word of God yet to make sure they're accurate and true according to the Word of God, but I can tell you persecution is coming.
The church is going to need people like Ed.
People who are not afraid to wear it, people who are not worried about if it costs them their own life.
Old pastor, I don't need to hear that this morning.
You don't understand.
That kind of life is not for me.
That kind of life is for every believer.
Jesus said, listen, unless you deny yourself and take up your cross, you can't be my disciple.
Not how people argue that and say, well, pastor, that was for those disciples.
That's not for us today.
Oh, no, friend.
When Jesus was speaking that, He was telling His disciples that.
He was also telling us that.
We can never really serve Him until we get an attitude of selflessness in our lives.
This guy, when he left Philippi to go minister to Paul, he was not concerned
what would happen to him.
His only concern was doing his part to help the man of God reach the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Let me tell you something, friends.
The church needs those people.
See, a lot of people go, I don't know what I can do.
Pastor, I used to do this and I used to do that, but I don't know what I can do today.
Listen, there's always something to do.
There's always needs that need to be met.
People that need to be called, friends that need to be visited, there's always, listen to me, there's always prayer that needs to be prayed.
Oh, you didn't hear me this morning.
There's always prayer that needs to be prayed.
Always.
We have gotten so much to a point where we want the Timothy solution that we're not really realized.
We need more of the ed people.
We need more of the people who are willing to work than the people that are going to be the headliners.
Now that doesn't mean that there might be a lot of headliners in this room this morning.
God made one moment or another use you in such a way that the whole world sees your face and hears your message of the gospel.
But chances are that might not happen.
And even though, you know, I preach the Word of God and it's seen on TV, it doesn't mean it'll go any further than the area it's in right here.
But I don't do it for that.
I do it because the message of the gospel, the message of hope needs to be preached.
And I'm preaching this to you this morning to encourage you.
We need you to keep the ministry going.
Not to be discouraged.
Listen, the Bible says, hold those people in esteem.
And today I'm saying thank you.
Many of you have helped me over these last four years, do the work I couldn't do, help me with the work I couldn't do by myself.
You've volunteered, you've done things.
I just want to say thank you this morning.
To really say thank you for all the work you've put in and to encourage you not to quit.
Because there's more we need to do for the kingdom of God.
There's more things that we can do for the kingdom of God.
We have not reached the pinnacle of what we can do, and for a while it seemed like the church was just plateauing at its level of comfort.
And I want to encourage you this morning, if we're going to see the law saved, if we're going to see God's church grow, if we're going to see lives restored and renewed, we can't stay at a level of comfort in ministry.
We have to go beyond.
We have to learn what it means to be
a brother or sister in the Lord, a fellow worker, a fellow soldier.
We have to learn what it means to say, you know what?
I don't mind not being the star.
Because Jesus would say something like this, you want to be first in the kingdom?
Because that was the argument for the disciples.
I love it.
Two disciples got their mother involved.
That's sad.
That's just sad.
Hey mama, go put in a good word.
Jesus would say to those men, you want to be greatest?
You want to be the star?
You want to have a throne sitting next to me in the kingdom of heaven?
You got to be the least.
You got to be willing to do the work.
You got to be willing to put yourself aside and serve with such selfless
ability that when the world looks at you, it doesn't even see you.
It sees Jesus.
You say, well, pastors, that mean I need to grow long hair and a beard and get, you know, look like the picture on.
No.
The Bible said by the disciples actions, men knew that they had been with Jesus.
Do you know that?
They said, by their actions, their love for one another, the way they treated one another, and the way they worked, the world knew those men had been with Jesus.
That's why they called them Christians, Christ-like, because they were just like Him.
I guarantee you, not all 12 of those men looked like Jesus.
They were probably all different sizes and shapes.
I think the Lord, we don't all have to be the same size and shape to make it in.
He says, you want to be great, you can be great.
But what makes up the church is not all great superstars.
What makes up the church is those people who are willing to sacrifice and love and serve, even if it costs them something.
I'm sure when Ed signed up to go help Paul, he wasn't thinking, well, this is going to kill me.
He probably wasn't saying, boy, I sure am glad I'm going to get a testimony out of this.
Oh, come on, y'all.
That was funny.
You ever heard those missionaries?
They'll come over and they'll say, boy, I've got to test the money out.
God saved me from all these raging hippos and all these natives are throwing spears and all this stuff.
And I'm like, well, I bet you didn't sign up for that.
Hey, guess what?
If I sign up to be a missionary, I'm going to see raging hippos.
No, because that would be, like, wrong.
When men like Jim Elliott and Steve St went out to minister to the Indians in South America, they weren't going, great, guess what?
We're going to die young.
And be stabbed with spears.
Isn't that exciting?
Well, no, they didn't do that.
But they were willing to do that.
Now, you didn't hear me this morning.
Not that they were going to do that.
They were willing to do that.
Because that's how much the message of Jesus meant to them.
The sad thing is, the reflection of ministry in a church shows how much the gospel means to the church.
The amount of ministry pouring out of a church to its community shows how much they care about the gospel getting out to the community.
Our lives show how much we care about what Christ did for us by how we treat others with the love of Jesus Christ.
Thank you for watching today's service, but you really should visit in person.
Service times are at 10 a.m. Sunday morning, 6 p.m. on Sunday evening, and Wednesday night Bible study begins at 7 p.m. We're located at 582 Rockingham Road, it's on Route 5 just north of Bellows Falls.
For more information you can visit our website.
at www.faithchristianag.com.
God bless you and have a great day.